Two weeks after the event, the reverberations from the August 2 bomb blast that demolished the arrival lounge of Madras' Meenambakkam airport killing 29 people, including 24 Sri Lankans, and injuring 38 others are still being heard.

The fact that the bomb was obviously meant to explode on an Air Lanka flight bound for Colombo points the finger at Tamil extremists based in Tamil Nadu, something the Indian Government would naturally find embarrassing.But as the two separate investigations into the cold-blooded affair entered a crucial stage last week, the sequence of events that led to the explosion at the airport suggested that more embarrassments than were originally foreseen would be forthcoming soon.

The tragic events that led to the actual blast were in themselves a shocking mix of official bungling and apathy as the reconstructed details of that fateful day clearly showed:

5.35 p.m. Indian Airlines flight IC 574 from Colombo lands at Madras. Thirty-one Sri Lankans on board scheduled to catch a connecting Air-India flight at 5 a.m. the next morning are put in the arrival lounge.

9.50 p.m. Laila Singh, airport manager, receives an anonymous telephone call claiming that "two dark brown suitcases lying with the customs contain bombs." On being asked what kind of bombs, the caller replies "rock-blasting material. Don't ask any more questions."9.55 p.m. Singh telephones J.C. Tamhane, deputy director, operations, and informs him about the call. He also calls the fire station and asks for a tender and an ambulance to be kept near the airport terminus.

Remains of the arrival hall where transit passengers were sleeping
10 p.m.
Singh rings up Shivaprasad, deputy chief controller of explosives. Shivaprasad refuses to come unless he is sent transport as he lives 14 km away. After a minute argument, Singh gets authorisation to send a jeep.

10.15 p.m. Singh contacts K. Kasim, deputy commissioner of police in charge of airport security. Kasim merely thanks Singh and puts the phone down. Singh also calls Kalimullah Khan, deputy superintendent of police. Khan says,"What should I do? Why don't you inform the inspectors at the airport?" Singh tries the airport police number but gets no response.

10.20 p.m. Singh walks across to the Indian Airlines control room and informs duty officer Pattabhi about the call. Pattabhi confirms that there are two brown suitcases lying with the customs. Singh then goes to the customs area and tells customs officers R. Damodaran and Augustine Thomas about the bomb call. They laugh it off as a hoax and tell him the suitcases probably contain contraband. Singh tells them not to touch the suitcases till the explosives experts arrive.10.30 p.m. Singh returns to his office.

10.40 p.m. The anonymous caller telephones again with the terse message that "the bombs in the suitcase are going to explode by 11 p.m." Singh frantically calls airport security police but again gets no answer. He also tries to contact the announcer on the public address system to broadcast a warning to passengers and others but again gets no answer.

10.44 p.m. Singh rushes out into the arrival hall in search of police personnel. He finds a group eating their dinner and tells them to warn passengers to evacuate the area.They reluctantly agree and start waking the transit passengers from Sri Lanka in the arrival lounge. Desperate to sound the alarm Singh rushes to the public address room to broadcast a warning but finds the door locked.

10.49 p.m. Singh rushes to the customs area and informs Damodaran and Thomas about the second call. They ask Alexander, a baggage loader, to wheel the two suitcases out onto the airport tarmac. Singh then shouts at the passengers to get out of the building.Police extricating bodies from the wreckage: A cold-blooded affair
10.52 p.m.
The bombs in the suitcases explode. Damodaran, Thomas, Alexander and 29 other people in the lounge are killed instantly.12.10 p.m. The explosives experts arrive, two hours and ten minutes after they have been informed.

The effect of the blast was devastating. Debris from the shattered building covered the bodies and the final death count came only three days later. The airport itself was shut down to international traffic for three days while police and Home Guards personnel worked round the clock to clear the rubble.The incident set off a spate of bomb scares in other airports and a general red alert was issued to all airports in the country. All air cargo is being put in cold storage for a 24-hour period.

Meanwhile, Khursheed Alam Khan, Union civil aviation minister who came to Madras the day after the blast appointed an inquiry commission headed by Air Vice-Marshal C.K.S. Raje, director-general of civil aviation. The Tamil Nadu Government set up its own commission led by K. Mohandas, director-general of police.

But last week, the Mohandas team arrested five people including two Sri Lanka Tamils. The main suspect so far is a man listed on the passenger manifest as Kathiresan Marimuthu who had checked in the two suitcases for an Air Lanka flight to Colombo that same evening.The name is obviously fictitious since the address given on his passport turned out to be an unoccupied house in Tambaram, a Madras suburb. But investigations have proved that Kathiresan purchased the Air Lanka ticket(No:4100 304 143) from the Madras branch of Stic Travels and Tours on July 30.

Kathiresan wanted to fly to Colombo on July 31 but was told he was 24th on the waiting-list. Later he decided against travelling when he was told his two suitcases were overweight and he would have to pay excess baggage fees.He was back again on August 2 with a confirmed ticket for Air Lanka's Boeing 737 flight UL 122 to Colombo scheduled to leave Madras at 8.10 p.m. This time he paid the excess baggage fees. Airline officials recall that his booking was for Madras-Colombo and that his suitcases were accordingly tagged.

However, Kathiresan obviously had no intention of catching the flight as he failed to appear for the immigration or customs checks. It was also evident in retrospect that he had an accomplice working at the airport since a London tag was affixed to one of his suitcases and a Paris tag onto the other.

The tags would have ensured that the suitcases were automatically loaded onto Air Lanka's London and Paris flights from Colombo. The London flight was due to leave Colombo at 11.55 p.m. while the Paris flight was scheduled for departure at 11.30 p.m. In any event, the setting of the time bomb indicated that it would have exploded at Colombo airport at 10.52.

Kathiresan evidently expected his accomplice to get his bags through customs and onto the aircraft since customs officials usually check only 5 per cent of the luggage. As it happened, a customs officer got suspicious because of the weight and detained it for checking in the passengers' presence.

Seeing the London and Paris tags, the customs authorities, realising it was unclaimed, presumed the passenger had boarded the aircraft. They carried the suitcase inside the aircraft and held them up for identification.

Since nobody claimed them a head count was taken and it was found-that one passenger was missing. A check of the manifest revealed it to be Kathiresan. The flight took off and the two suitcases were taken to the customs detention area near the arrival lounge. Customs laws require two witnesses to be present when a bag is checked for contraband. Since there were none available, the officials decided to open it later.

It is now certain that Kathiresan was the man who made the phone calls to Singh after he realised that his bags were not on the flight. It is also believed that he made the calls from the airport itself. Meanwhile, police investigators have put together an identikit picture of Kathiresan from descriptions obtained from the travel agent and airline officials. One porter has been arrested on suspicion and Shivaprasad, the explosives expert, has been suspended.

By last week, all indications pointed to Kathiresan being a member of one of the Tamil extremist groups sheltering in Tamil Nadu who intended to blow up Colombo airport. Sri Lankan intelligence officials suspect two groups in particular. A small individualistic group called the Tamil Ealam Army headed by Tambipillai Maneshwar who escaped from Pannagoda Jail in Sri Lanka some years ago and who has allegedly been involved in several bank robberies there since.

The other group suspected is the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Ealam who blew up an Avro aircraft at an airport in Sri Lanka in 1974. But that, if true, would place the Indian and Tamil Nadu Governments in a tricky position.

Says Tamil Nadu Home Secretary, T.V. Venkataraman "We are keeping an open mind on the matter." But just how open will only be known when the investigations are completed.
